# Change Log

All notable changes to the "ilspy-vscode" extension will be documented in this file.

## 0.23

- Support for analyzing NuGet packages (add to assembly tree, browse contents and bundled assemblies)
- Allow to drag&drop assembly files from outside into assembly tree, adding them to the list
- New ILSpy activity bar icon for our view containers (thanks to [@banditoth](https://github.com/banditoth) for the icon!)
- Backend has been migrated to .NET 10, the extension now installs .NET 10 runtime on start

## 0.22

- Support decompilation of .NET-compiled .wasm files
- Introduce "Base Types" and "Derived Types" elements for type nodes in tree (works similarly to ILSpy stand-alone
  application)
- Allow to analyze symbols shown in "Search Results" and "Analyze" panels
- Fix: "Analyze" command was not available for fields
- Fix: Remove context menu commands from general command palette, since they were not functional there

## 0.21

- Upgrade to ICSharpCode.Decompiler 9.1 (see release notes for [ILSpy 9.1](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy/releases/tag/v9.1) to get more details)

## 0.20

- Introduction of "Analyze" feature similar to ILSpy desktop application: You can analyze where a method is called, a type is used or an interface is implemented. See [Wiki](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ilspy-vscode/wiki/Analyzing-Relationship-between-Symbols) for a description.
- Upgrade to ICSharpCode.Decompiler 9.0 (see release notes for [ILSpy 9.0](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy/releases/tag/v9.0))
- Support decompilation to C# 12
- New "Auto-load dependencies" setting: If activated, dependency assemblies automatically loaded to resolve symbols are now temporarily added to assembly list. This behavior is similar to ILSpy desktop application.
- New "Show compiler-generated symbols" setting: If activated, shows types and members generated by the compiler itself (marked with `[CompilerGenerated]` attribute).

## 0.19

- Add "Search with ILSpy" command in editor's context menu. This allows to search any text or symbol name with ILSpy's symbol search.
- Fix: Reuse previously acquired .NET runtime, if no internet connection is available during VS Code start. Before the fix the extension used to hang during initialization, if no connection to the update server was available.

## 0.18

- Users may choose a C# language version for decompilation
- New "Collapse All" button in tree views
- Internal restructuring of the project on backend side, separating a Language Server layer from basic decompilation, assembly tree handling and search

## 0.17

- Upgrade to ICSharpCode.Decompiler 8.2 (see release notes for [ILSpy 8.2](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy/releases/tag/v8.2) to get more details)
- Backend process now migrated to .NET 8, so extension locally downloads a .NET 8 runtime on startup
- Search button not shown in "ILSPY: Assemblies" view anymore, when no assemblies were loaded

## 0.16.1

- Fixes for 2 issues with adding assemblies from workspace

## 0.16

- List of decompiled assemblies is now persisted per workspace: Assemblies will appear again as soon as workspace is reloaded. This behavior can be disabled in VS Code settings.
- Decompile any assembly directly from Explorer view
- Small improvements in assembly list (buttons instead of context menus)

## 0.15

- Assembly references are now shown in tree
- Fix for failing unload/reload of assemblies in tree

## 0.14.1

- Fix for missing output language selection

## 0.14

- Introduction of symbol search
- New "Reload assembly" command in "Decompiled Members" tree
- "Decompiled Members" now properly sorted
- Usage of VS Code built-in icons for different symbol types instead of shipping our own icon set
- Extension package (VSIX) now optimized and smaller in size
- Extension is now loaded a bit later to avoid slowing down VS Code startup unnecessarily

## 0.13.1

- Fix zombie backend processes still running after VS Code was closed on Linux and macOS
- Make output language selection less confusing

## 0.13

- Upgrade to .NET 6.0 runtime
- "ILSpy Decompiled Members" view now has a menu to quickly add assemblies without command palette

## 0.12.1

- Fix issue with "Pick assembly from file system" command, where only namespaces were decompiled.

## 0.12

- Only one document is opened now on decompilation (C# or IL). Users can switch the output language in editor toolbar and also preset a default output language in VS Code configuration. Documents are read-only now.
- Previously opened documents with decompiled code are no longer re-opened on restart of VS Code
- Improved decompilation results by resolving dependencies of decompiled assembly (as ILSpy does)

## 0.11.2

- Fixed issues activating the extension on Linux systems, also leading to malfunction of some other extensions

## 0.11

- Re-architecture of internal ILSpy interface (_ILSpy.Backend_) based on .NET 5.0, therefore no Mono dependency on Linux/MacOS any more
- Improved look of assembly tree showing assembly names and metadata instead of a too long path
- Update to v7.1 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.10

- Update to v7.0 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.9

- Update to v6.1 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.8

- Update to v6.0 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.7.11

- Use temp directory and files to show decompiled documents.
- Update dev dependencies to address npm audit warnings

## 0.7.10

- Update to ILSpy 5.0.2

## 0.7.9

- Update npm pacakges
- Update to ILSpy 5.0.1

## 0.7.8

- Update to v5.0 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.7.7

- Reuse same doc window to show decompiled code

## 0.7.6

- Update backend to target `net472`

## 0.7.5

- Update to v4.0 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.7.0

- Add IL view
- Add a context menu for assembly nodes to unload them.

## 0.6.0

- Allows choosing assemblies using the file picker dialog
- Upgrade to v4 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.5.0

Update to v3.2 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.4.0

Update to v3.1 of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.3.0

Update to RTM version of `ICSharpCode.Decompiler`

## 0.2.0

- Publish to the marketplace (fix icon and more)
- Update to latest ICS.Decompiler NuGet (Beta 4)

## 0.1.0

Add more details about the two commands in README

## 0.0.3

Move to icsharpcode/ilspy-vscode repository

## 0.0.2

Enable \*Nix support using Mono.

## 0.0.1

Initial release
